<pre>
I was born on the prairie and the milk of its wheat, 
the red of its clover, the eyes of its women, 
gave me a song and a slogan.

Here the water went down, the icebergs slid with gravel, 
the gaps and the valleys hissed,
and the black loam came, and the yellow sandy loam.

Here between the sheds of the Rocky Mountains and the 
Appalachians, here now a morning star fixes a fire sign over 
the timber claims and cow pastures, 
the corn belt, the cotton belt, the cattle ranches.

Here the gray geese go five hundred miles and back with a wind 
under their wings honking 
the cry for a new home.

Here I know I will hanker after nothing so much as one more 
sunrise or a sky moon of fire doubled to a river moon of water.

The prairie sings to me in the forenoon and I know in the night 
I rest easy in the prairie arms, on the prairie heart.

●⁠●⁠●

After the sunburn of the day
handling a pitchfork at a hayrack,
after the eggs and biscuit and coffee,
the pearl-gray haystacks
in the gloaming
are cool prayers
to the harvest hands.


In the city among the walls the overland passenger train 
is choked and the pistons hiss and the wheels curse.

On the prairie the overland flits on phantom wheels and 
the sky and the soil between them 
muffle the pistons and cheer the wheels.

●⁠●⁠●

I am here when the cities are gone.
I am here before the cities come.
I nourished the lonely men on horses.
I will keep the laughing men who ride iron.
I am dust of men.

The running water babbled to the deer, the cottontail, 
the gopher.
You came in wagons, making streets and schools.
Kin of the ax and rifle, kin of the plow and horse,
Singing Yankee Doodle, Old Dan Tucker, Turkey in the 
Straw,
You in the coonskin cap at a log house door hearing a lone 
wolf howl,
You at a sod house door reading the blizzards and chinooks 
let loose from Medicine Hat,
I am dust of your dust, as I am brother and mother
To the copper faces, the worker in flint and clay,
The singing women and their sons a thousand years ago
Marching single file the timber and the plain.

I hold the dust of these amid changing stars.
I last while old wars are fought, while peace broods mother-like,
While new wars arise and the fresh killings of young men.
I fed the boys who went to France in great dark days.
Appomattox is a beautiful word to me and so is Valley Forge 
and the Marne and Verdun,
I who have seen the red births and the red deaths
Of sons and daughters, I take peace or war, I say nothing and 
wait.

Have you seen a red sunset drip over one of my cornfields, 
the shore of night stars, 
the wave lines of dawn up a wheat valley?
Have you heard my threshing crews yelling in the chaff of a 
strawpile and the running wheat of the wagonboards, 
my cornhuskers, my harvest hands hauling crops, 
singing dreams of women, worlds, horizons?

●⁠●⁠●

Rivers cut a path on flat lands.
The mountains stand up.
The salt oceans press in
And push on the coast lines.
The sun, the wind, bring rain
And I know what the rainbow writes across the east or west
 in a half-circle:
A love-letter pledge to come again.

●⁠●⁠●

Towns on the Soo Line,
Towns on the Big Muddy,
Laugh at each other for cubs
And tease as children.
Omaha and Kansas City, Minneapolis and St. Paul, 
sisters in a house together, throwing slang,
 growing up.
Towns in the Ozarks, Dakota wheat towns, Wichita, Peoria, 
Buffalo, sisters throwing slang, growing up.

●⁠●⁠●

Out of prairie-brown grass crossed with a streamer of wigwam
smoke— out of a smoke pillar,
 a blue promise—out of wild ducks woven in greens and purples—
Here I saw a city rise and say to the peoples round world: 
Listen, I am strong, I know what I want.
Out of log houses and stumps—canoes stripped from tree-sides—
flatboats coaxed with an ax from the timber claims—
in the years when the red and the white men met—
the houses and streets rose.

A thousand red men cried and went away to new places 
for corn and women: 
a million white men came and put up skyscrapers, threw out 
rails and wires, feelers to the salt sea: 
now the smokestacks bite the skyline with stub teeth.

In an early year the call of a wild duck woven in greens and
purples: now the riveter's chatter, 
the police patrol, the song-whistle of the steamboat.

To a man across a thousand years I offer a handshake.
I say to him: Brother, make the story short, for the stretch of a 
thousand years is short.

What brothers these in the dark?
What eaves of skyscrapers against a smoke moon?
These chimneys shaking on the lumber shanties
When the coal boats plow by on the river—
The hunched shoulders of the grain elevators—
The flame sprockets of the sheet steel mills
And the men in the rolling mills with their shirts off
Playing their flesh arms against the twisting wrists of steel:
what brothers these in the dark of a thousand years?

●⁠●⁠●

A headlight searches a snowstorm.
A funnel of white light shoots from over the pilot of the 
Pioneer Limited crossing Wisconsin.

In the morning hours, in the dawn,
The sun puts out the stars of the sky
And the headlight of the Limited train.

The fireman waves his hand to a country school teacher 
on a bobsled.
A boy, yellow hair, red scarf and mittens, on the bobsled, 
in his lunch box a pork chop sandwich 
and a V of gooseberry pie.

The horses fathom a snow to their knees.
Snow hats are on the rolling prairie hills.
The Mississippi bluffs wear snow hats.

●⁠●⁠●

Keep your hogs on changing corn and mashes of grain,
O farmerman.
Cram their insides till they waddle on short legs
Under the drums of bellies, hams of fat.
Kill your hogs with a knife slit under the ear.
Hack them with cleavers.
Hang them with hooks in the hind legs.

●⁠●⁠●

A wagonload of radishes on a summer morning.
Sprinkles of dew on the crimson-purple balls.
The farmer on the seat dangles the reins on the rumps of 
dapple-gray horses.
The farmer's daughter with a basket of eggs dreams of a 
new hat to wear to the county fair.

●⁠●⁠●

On the left- and right-hand side of the road,
Marching corn—
I saw it knee high weeks ago—now it is head high—
tassels of red silk creep at the ends of the ears.

●⁠●⁠●

I am the prairie, mother of men, waiting.

They are mine, the threshing crews eating beefsteak, 
the farmboys driving steers to the railroad cattle pens.
They are mine, the crowds of people at a Fourth of July basket 
picnic, listening to a lawyer read 
the Declaration of Independence, watching the pinwheels and 
Roman candles at night, 
the young men and women two by two hunting the bypaths 
and kissing bridges.
They are mine, the horses looking over a fence in the frost 
of late October saying good-morning
 to the horses hauling wagons of rutabaga to market.
They are mine, the old zigzag rail fences, the new barb wire.

●⁠●⁠●

The cornhuskers wear leather on their hands.
There is no let-up to the wind.
Blue bandannas are knotted at the ruddy chins.

Falltime and winter apples take on the smolder of the five-
o'clock November sunset: falltime,
leaves, bonfires, stubble, the old things go, and the earth is 
grizzled.
The land and the people hold memories, even among the 
anthills and the angleworms, 
among the toads and woodroaches—among gravestone 
writings rubbed out by the rain—
they keep old things that never grow old.

The frost loosens corn husks.
The sun, the rain, the wind
loosen corn husks.
The men and women are helpers.
They are all cornhuskers together.
I see them late in the western evening
in a smoke-red dust.

●⁠●⁠●

The phantom of a yellow rooster flaunting a scarlet comb, 
on top of a dung pile crying 
hallelujah to the streaks of daylight,
The phantom of an old hunting dog nosing in the underbrush 
for muskrats, barking at a coon i
n a treetop at midnight, chewing a bone, chasing his tail 
round a corncrib.
The phantom of an old workhorse taking the steel point of 
a plow across a forty-acre field in spring, 
hitched to a harrow in summer, hitched to a wagon among 
cornshocks in fall.
These phantoms come into the talk and wonder of people 
on the front porch of a farmhouse
late summer nights.
"The shapes that are gone are here," said an old man with 
a cob pipe in his teeth one night 
in Kansas with a hot wind on the alfalfa.

●⁠●⁠●

Look at six eggs
In a mockingbird's nest.

Listen to six mockingbirds
Flinging follies of O-be-joyful
Over the marshes and uplands.

Look at songs
Hidden in eggs.

●⁠●⁠●

When the morning sun is on the trumpet-vine blossoms, 
sing at the kitchen pans: 
Shout All Over God's Heaven.
When the rain slants on the potato hills and the sun plays 
a silver shaft on the last shower, 
sing to the bush at the backyard fence: Mighty Lak a Rose.
When the icy sleet pounds on the storm windows and the 
house lifts to a great breath, 
sing for the outside hills: The Ole Sheep Done Know the 
Road,
the Young Lambs Must Find the Way.

●⁠●⁠●

Spring slips back with a girl face calling always: 
"Any new songs for me? Any new songs?"

O prairie girl, be lonely, singing, dreaming, waiting—
your lover comes—your child comes—
the years creep with toes of April rain on new-turned sod.
O prairie girl, whoever leaves you only crimson poppies to 
talk with, whoever puts a good-by kiss 
on your lips and never comes back—
There is a song deep as the falltime redhaws, long as the 
layer of black loam we go to, 
the shine of the morning star over the corn belt, the wave 
line of dawn up a wheat valley.

●⁠●⁠●

O prairie mother, I am one of your boys.
I have loved the prairie as a man with a heart
shot full of pain over love.
Here I know I will hanker after nothing so much 
as one more sunrise or a sky 
moon of fire doubled to a river moon of water.

●⁠●⁠●

I speak of new cities and new people.
I tell you the past is a bucket of ashes.
I tell you yesterday is a wind gone down
a sun dropped in the west.
I tell you there is nothing in the world
only an ocean of to-morrows,
a sky of to-morrows.

I am a brother of the cornhuskers who say
at sundown:
To-morrow is a day.
</pre>